$Id$ -*-text-*-

Subject: Dust Entrainment and Deposition Model Website/Mail List

This announcement describes the public availability of the 
Dust Entrainment And Deposition (DEAD) model and associated utilities.
DEAD is a dust aerosol module that runs in standalone mode or as a
sub-module driven by a host atmospheric model (i.e., DEAD does sources
and sinks but not transport, except gravitational settling).
DEAD has been available on the web since August, 2002 (version 1.2.0).
This is the first public announcement (September, 2003, version 1.3.2).

http://dust.ess.uci.edu/dead               <- homepage
http://dust.ess.uci.edu/dead/dead.tar.gz   <- source code

1. The homepage links to a number of published or in-press papers that
make use of DEAD. These papers describe the physics and chemistry of
DEAD and document its predictions on global scales. 
Let me know if there are any that should be added (or removed!)

2. The box model version of DEAD is now on-line here:

http://dust.ess.uci.edu/dead/bxm_cnf.html

No compiling necessary! Want to see what DEAD predicts for surface
conditions you are interested in? Use your browser to change the
inputs, run it, and visualize the results. The visualization
scripts are written in NCL and included in the separately packaged
box model source code:

http://dust.ess.uci.edu/dead/bxm.tar.gz

We encourage users to examine and to send us improvements to the
current scripts. If there are particular variables or NCL graphics
techniques that you desire, simply modify our existing scripts and
send us the results. We are happy to incorporate useful new features
of general interest. 

3. Future announcements about DEAD will occur on the DEAD mail list:

dead@uci.edu

This is the last "mass mailing". To join the DEAD list, visit:

https://maillists.uci.edu/mailman/listinfo/dead

This is the appropriate venue for questions, comments, and
discussions about DEAD, in any incarnation (CAM, CCM, MATCH,
UCICTM, UIO, etc.), and its future development are welcome here. 
So are discussions about dust modeling techniques in general.
Requests for help with DEAD _should_ be posted here so that
the mail list archive becomes a searchable FAQ.
Only members may post to the mail list, but the archive is 
publicly available. 

4. Why you might care: If you are an observationalist and want
to perform simple sensitivity studies without getting your hands
dirty with a Fortran compiler, then the web interface to DEAD
may be very useful. The graphics output tell you most of what
you want to know (e.g., concentration, size distribution, optical
depth, deposition) and they will only get better.
If you are a modeler then you are already busy just keeping your own
code running. Isn't keeping track of another model a waste of time?
Perhaps. The best reason a modeler might want to check out DEAD, if
they are not already using it, is that DEAD is very flexible from a
software point of view.   

One can switch parameterizations without re-compiling, and run the
box model and visualize the results without running a full GCM.
This makes DEAD a great test platform for new parameterizations,
at least at the microphysical level. My hope is that others may
contribute new components or alternate implementations of the
basic physics so that it becomes progressively easier to use
DEAD to compare theories against a wide array of field measurements, 
e.g., saltation, source size distribution, moisture inhibition.

5. We are working on putting some near real-time DEAD simulations vs. 
station measurements on the web. Let us know if you have any other
ideas.

My apologies if you receive duplicate copies.
I hope to see many of you at the dust conference in Paris next week!

Au Revoir,
Charlie



